By the time you set foot on the campus of the United States Military Academy at West Point, you've earned it.
The admissions process for West Point is at least as rigorous as for the most selective universities. Top scores on the SAT or ACT and outstanding high school grades are a must.
But when you apply to Harvard, you don't need to start your application in the eleventh grade, and you don't need to secure a nomination from a member of Congress, a senator, or the vice president of the United States.
You don't, for that matter, have to get superlative marks in a fitness assessment that includes running, push-ups, and pull-ups.
What is the main advantage of binary search over linear search? What is the main disadvantage?
What is meant by a dynamic array? What is the advantage of a dynamic array over a regular array?
What does it mean to say that ArrayList is a parameterized type?
Assume that the list is not empty and that all the items in the list are non-null. Write a code segment that will find and print the string in the list that comes first in lexicographic order.
Write a code segment that will output the first name, last name, and hourly wage of each employee who has been with the company for 20 years or more. Write two versions of the code segment, one that uses a regular for loop, and one that uses a for-each loop.
Write a record class to represent dates, where a Date object contains three integer fields giving the month, day, and year of the date. The canonical constructor should throw an exception if the values for the month and day are not legal. Also include a toString() method that prints a date in a form such as "5/27/2022".
COMPUTERS GET A LOT OF THEIR POWER from working with data structures. A data structure is an organized collection of related data. An object is a data structure, combined usually with some methods, but this type of data structure—consisting of a fairly small number of named instance variables—is just the beginning. In many cases, programmers build complicated data structures by hand, by linking objects together. We'll look at these custom-built data structures in Chapter 9. This chapter looks at more basic data structures. There is one type of data structure that is so important and so basic that it is built into every programming language: the array.
You have already encountered arrays in Section 3.8 and Subsection 5.1.4. We continue the study of arrays in this chapter, including some new details of their use and some additional array-processing techniques. In particular, we will look at the important topic of algorithms for searching and sorting an array in Section 7.5.
An array has a fixed size that can't be changed after the array is created. But in many cases, it is useful to have a data structure that can grow and shrink as necessary. In Section 7.3, we will look at a standard class, ArrayList, that represents such a data structure.
An array is a numbered sequence of items, all of the same type. A record is another kind of standard data structure. Like an array, a record consists of a sequence of items, but in a record, the items are referred to by name instead of by number, and the items can be of different types. Any object in Java can be thought of as a record in this sense, but Java 17 introduced records explicitly into the language as a special kind of class with certain restrictions. We will look at record classes in Section 7.4.